src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/collections.adoc, before:

[[collections]]
==== Collections
_From <<ISO19103>> §7.3_

GeoAPI implements ISO 19103 collection interfaces using the standard Collections Frameworks provided by {supported-languages}.
A `Set` is a finite collection of objects where each object appears only once.
A `Bag` is similar to a `Set` except that it may contain duplicated instances.
The order of elements in a `Set` or a `Bag` is not specified.
A `Sequence` is similar to a `Bag` except that elements are ordered.

.Collections mapping
[options="header"]
|========================================================
|ISO 19103 interface |Java type              |Python type
|`Collection`        |`java.util.Collection` |`Sequence`
|`Bag`               |`java.util.Collection` |`Sequence`
|`Set`               |`java.util.Set`        |`Set`
|`Sequence`          |`java.util.List`       |`Sequence`
|`Dictionary`        |`java.util.Map`        |`dict`
|========================================================

Unless otherwise required by the semantic of a property, GeoAPI prefers to use the `Collection` type in Java method signatures.
This allows implementers to choose their preferred subtypes, usually `Set` or `Sequence`.
The `Set` type is not the default type because enforcing element uniqueness may constrain implementations to use hash tables
or similar algorithms, which is not always practical.

Commit message:

Upgrade the specification from ISO 19103:2015 to ISO 19103:2024. This is incomplete, the following tasks still need to be done:
* Review the UML schemas
* Verify the Metanorma rendered pages, including reference in bibliography
* Review section on `Record` (removed from ISO 19103 but still used in GeoAPI).
* Review section on `GenericName` (removed from ISO 19103 but still used in GeoAPI).
* Review section on `InternationalString` for replacing the standard source by `PT_FreeText`.

https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoapi/issues/102

src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/collections.adoc, after:

[[collections]]
==== Collections
_From <<ISO19103>> §7.3.2.3_

GeoAPI implements multi-valued properties using the standard Collections Frameworks provided by {supported-languages}.
If the property has the `isUnique` meta-property, then the collection is a `Set`:
a finite collection of objects where each object appears only once in unspecified order.
If the property has the `isOrdered` meta-property, then the collection is a `Sequence`:
a collection of object where elements are ordered and may appear many times.

.Collections mapping
[options="header"]
|===============================================================
|Meta-property |ISO 19103:2015     |Java type       |Python type
|`isUnique`    |`Set`        ^(1)^ |`java.util.Set` |`Set`
|`isOrdered`   |`Sequence`   ^(1)^ |`java.util.List`|`Sequence`
|              |`Dictionary`       |`java.util.Map` |`dict`
|===============================================================

Notes:

* (1) Deprecated in ISO 19103:2024, but listed because still present in some standards.

Unless otherwise required by the semantic of a property, GeoAPI prefers to use the `Collection` type in Java method signatures.
This allows implementers to choose their preferred subtypes, usually `Set` or `List`.
The `Set` type is not the default type because enforcing element uniqueness may constrain implementations to use hash tables
or similar algorithms, which is not always practical.
