src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/datetime.adoc, before:

[[datetime]]
==== Date and time
_From <<ISO19103>> §7.2.2 to 7.2.4_

The ISO 19103 `Date` interface gives values for year, month and day
while the `Time` interface gives values for hour, minute and second.
`DateTime` is the combination of a date with a time, with or without timezone.
GeoAPI maps the ISO date and time interfaces to the types provided in the standard library of target languages.
In some cases like Java, this mapping forces GeoAPI to choose whether the time component shall include timezone
information or not since the choices are represented by different types
(e.g. `LocalDateTime`, `OffsetDateTime` and `ZonedDateTime`).
The timezone information is often desired for geospatial data
(for example in the acquisition time of a remote sensing image),
but may be undesired for some other cases like office opening hours.
In the latter case, the decision to include timezone or not depends if the opening hours apply to one specific office
or to all offices spanning the multiple timezones of a country.
GeoAPI generally includes timezone information, but this policy may be adjusted on a case-by-case basis.

.Date and time types mapping
[options="header"]
|===================================================================
|ISO 19103 interface   |Java class                      |Python type
|`Date`                |`java.time.LocalDate`     ^(1)^ |
|`Time`                |`java.time.OffsetTime`          |
|`DateTime`            |`java.time.ZonedDateTime` ^(1)^ |`datetime`
|(none)                |`java.time.Instant`       ^(1)^ |
|===================================================================

Notes:

* (1) Some properties defined in GeoAPI 3._x_ use the legacy `java​.util​.Date` class for historical reasons.

`DateTime` is distinct from `Instant`.
The former is expressed in the proleptic Gregorian calendar as described in <<ISO8601>>,
while the latter is an instantaneous point on the selected time scale, astronomical or atomic.
An `Instant` does not have year, month or day components.
It is instead a duration elapsed since an epoch,
and its conversion to a `Date­Time` may be complicated.
In GeoAPI, temporal objects in metadata are typically `Date­Time`
while coordinates in a temporal coordinate reference system are typically `Instant`.

Commit message:

Relax the mapping of `TM_Instant` to the more generic `Temporal` interface instead of `java.time.Instant`. An explanation of the reason has been added in the specification draft. Note: the following interfaces are still using `Instant` and may need to be revisited:
- org.opengis.filter.FilterFactory
- org.opengis.filter.ResourceId
- org.opengis.filter.Version

src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/datetime.adoc, after:

[[datetime]]
==== Date and time
_From <<ISO19103>> §7.2.2 to 7.2.4_

The ISO 19103 `Date` interface gives values for year, month and day
while the `Time` interface gives values for hour, minute and second.
`DateTime` is the combination of a date with a time, with or without timezone.
GeoAPI maps the ISO date and time interfaces to the types provided in the standard library of target languages.
However, this mapping is not a one-to-one relationship.
For example, the ISO `DateTime` interface can map to three different standard Java interfaces
(`LocalDateTime`, `ZonedDateTime` or `OffsetDateTime`)
depending on whether or not a timezone is present, and how the timezone is represented (by identifier or by offset).
The timezone information is often desired for geospatial data
(for example, in the acquisition time of a remote sensing image),
but may be undesired for some other cases like office opening hours
(for example, if they apply to all offices spanning the multiple timezones of a country).
GeoAPI generally uses a more flexible type than the one mandated by ISO specifications
for letting developers choose how they want to handle timezones.

.Date and time types suggested mapping
[options="header"]
|=========================================================================
|ISO 19103 interface   |Suggested Java class                  |Python type
|`Date`                |`java.time.LocalDate`     ^(1)^ ^(2)^ |
|`Time`                |`java.time.OffsetTime`    ^(1)^       |
|`DateTime`            |`java.time.ZonedDateTime` ^(1)^ ^(2)^ |`datetime`
|(none)                |`java.time.Instant`             ^(2)^ |
|=========================================================================

Notes:

* (1) The actual type mandated by GeoAPI is the more generic `java​.time.temporal.Temporal` interface.
* (2) Some properties defined in GeoAPI 3._x_ use the legacy `java​.util​.Date` class for historical reasons.

`DateTime` is distinct from `Instant`.
The former is expressed in the proleptic Gregorian calendar as described in <<ISO8601>>,
while the latter is an instantaneous point on the selected time scale, astronomical or atomic.
An `Instant` does not have year, month or day components.
It is instead a duration elapsed since an epoch,
and its conversion to a `Date­Time` may be complicated.
In GeoAPI, temporal objects in metadata are typically `Date­Time`
while coordinates in a temporal coordinate reference system are typically `Instant`.

The temporal objects defined by ISO 19103 are completed by more temporal objects defined by ISO 19108.
The latter are discussed in <<temporal>>, but follow the same principle of mapping to existing standards when possible.
