src/main/asciidoc/code/java/annotation.adoc, before:

[NOTE]
====
All classes, interfaces and enumeration types in GeoAPI which are based on a published standard
shall have an `@UML` annotation documenting the standard in which is defined the type,
the original name of the element, and the version of the standard if different than the dated normative reference.
As an example, the annotation label for the `ProjectedCRS` interface appears in the source code as below
(except the classifier which is implicit):

[source,java]
----
@Classifier(Stereotype.TYPE)
@UML(identifier = "ProjectedCRS", specification = ISO_19111)
public interface ProjectedCRS extends GeneralDerivedCRS {
    ...
}
----

which specifies that the type was defined in ISO 19111 standard as a type also named `ProjectedCRS`.
The `@Classifier` annotation is omitted when the value is `Stereotype.TYPE`, which is the most common case.
In addition, that interface contains the method `getCoordinateSystem()` with the following annotation:

[source,java]
----
@UML(identifier    = "coordinateSystem",
     obligation    = MANDATORY,
     specification = ISO_19111)
CartesianCS getCoordinateSystem();
----

which indicates that the method was defined in the same ISO 19111 specification
but had the name `coordinateSystem` in the standard rather than the `getCoordinateSystem` name used by GeoAPI,
and that a non-null value must be provided by every `ProjectedCRS` instance.

<<UML-introspection,An example in annex>> shows how these annotations are available at runtime by introspection.
====

Commit message:

Specification editions: move more Java-specific discussions to annex, remove some sentences that are outdated or not really applicable, reduce the use of "informative" blocks or make them smaller.

src/main/asciidoc/code/java/annotation.adoc, after:

In the following example, the top-level annotations indicate that the `ProjectedCRS` interface
was derived from a type also named `ProjectedCRS` in the ISO 19111 standard.
The enclosed annotation indicates that the `getCoordinateSystem()` method
was derived from a property named `coordinateSystem` in the ISO 19111 standard,
and that a non-null value must be provided by every `ProjectedCRS` instance:


[source,java]
----
@Classifier(Stereotype.TYPE)
@UML(identifier = "ProjectedCRS", specification = ISO_19111)
public interface ProjectedCRS extends GeneralDerivedCRS {
    /**
     * Returns the coordinate system.
     */
    @UML(identifier    = "coordinateSystem",
         obligation    = MANDATORY,
         specification = ISO_19111)
    CartesianCS getCoordinateSystem();
}
----

At runtime, the annotation of a reference to a GeoAPI interface can be obtained as follows,
taking as an example the method `getCoordinateSystem()` in the `ProjectedCRS` interface:

[source,java]
----
Class<?>      type          = ProjectedCRS.class;
Method        method        = type.getMethod("getCoordinateSystem");
UML           annotation    = method.getAnnotation(UML.class);
String        identifier    = annotation.identifier();          // = "coordinateSystem"
Specification specification = annotation.specification();       // = ISO 19111
Obligation    obligation    = annotation.obligation();          // = mandatory
----

Java provides a class instance like the `ProjectedCRS.class` instance used here for every type, either interface or class, defined in the runtime.
The `getMethod(…)` call uses introspection to obtain a reference to the method from which the annotation can then be obtained.
The annotation system therefore provides access, at runtime, to the original definition of the element.
