geoapi/src/main/python/python-todo.md, before:

# Python "To Do" List
## Specifications
### ISO Standards
- [ ] 19103
- [ ] 19107
- [ ] 19108 (?)
- [ ] 19109 (?)
- [ ] 19110 (?)
- [ ] 19111
- [ ] 19112 (?)
- [x] 19115-1:2014
    - [x] 19115-1 A1 (2018)
    - [x] 19115-1 A2 (2020)
    - metadata.lineage
        - ProcessStep
- [x] 19115-2:2018
    - [x] 19115-2 A1 (2022)
    - modules
        - metadata.aquisition
        - metadata.lineage
        - metadata.representation
        - metadata.content
        - CodeLists
- [ ] 19115-3
- [ ] 19157:2013 / 19157:2023 (?)
### OGC Standards
- [ ] 01009 (?)
- [ ] Filter (?)
- [ ] Moving Feature (?)

## Library of Enums and Abstract Classes
- [x] ISO 19103:2015 mapping to python types
    - [x] Bit --> unimplemented
    - [x] Digit --> unimplemented
    - [x] Sign --> unimplemented
- [x] Conform to PEP8; reflect ISO inheritance patterns
- [x] Abstract method return types
    - [x] pass
    - [x] return None
- [x] __str__ overrides
    - [x] metadata.naming.LocalName
    - [x] metadata.naming.ScopedName
    - [x] metadata.naming.TypeName
    - [x] metadata.naming.MemberName
- [x] `PT_Locale`
    - [x] Webscrape ISO 639-2 codes and store as JSON file (part of Joekulsarlon project)
        - [x] Fix Static type checking errors.
        - [x] Change process to save to parquet and JSON.
        - [x] Double-check parquet file for custom metadata, which is stored in the schema's metadata
        - [x] Convert JSON to Python Enum
    - [x] Webscrape ISO 3166-1 country codes and store in JSON and parquet files (part of Joekulsarlon project)
        - [x] convert JSON to Python Enum
    - [-] Webscrape IANA Character Sets and store in parquet file (part of Joekulsarlon project)
        - [-] Convert JSON to Python Enum
    - [x] Replace PT_Locale with `str` conforming to **IETF BCP 47**
    - [x] `metadata.acquisition.InstrumentEventList.locale`
    - [x] `metadata.base.Metadata`
        - [x] default_locale
        - [x] other_locale
    - [x] `metadata.identification.DataIdentification`
        - [x] default_locale
        - [x] other_locale
- [x] Check for occurences in 19115-1, 19115-2
    - [x] Set
        - [x] ScopeDescription
    - [x] Bag
    - [x] Dictionary
- [-] `PT_LocaleContainer` -> InternationalString (already noted as a `str` in docs 7.2.8)
    - [-] to_string(Locale)
- [x] `URI` --> `str`
    - [x] `metadata.identification.KeywordClass.concept_identifier`
- [x] `Direct Position`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 14 --> already implemented in geometry.primitive from ISO 19107:2019 p. 45
        - [x] `metadata.representation.GCP.geographic_coordinates`
        - [x] add `coordinatte` attribute
- [x] Add code documentation to indicate which attributes/properties/fields are mandatory for ISO 19115-1:2014
- [x] Fix data types for unannotated objects and attributes
- [X] Finish incomplete code documentation
    - [x] Add missing class and attribute descriptions
    - [x] Add definition for each CodeList value in its corresponding Enum class.
        - [x] metadata.citation
        - [x] metadata.content
        - [x] metadata.identification
        - [x] metadata.quality
        - [x] metadata.representation
        - [x] referencing.crs
    - [X] Change references in docstrings from MD_SomeObject (e.g., GM_Object, SV_OperationMetadata) to the python object
- [x] Fix data types for abstraction in ISO 19103, ISO 19107
    - [x] metadata.content
    - [x] metadata.extent
    - [x] metadata.identification
    - [x] metadata.lineage
    - [x] metadata.quality
    - [x] metadata.representation
    - [x] referencing.coordinate
    - [x] referencing.crs
    - [x] ISO 19103:2005
        - [x] `UnitOfMeasure`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 44
            - [x] `metadata.quality.QuantitativeResult.value_unit`
        - [x] `Distance`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 44
            - [x] `metadata.identification.Resolution`
                - [x] .distance
                - [x] .vertical
            - [x] `metadata.lineage.NominalResolution`
                - [x] .scanning_resolution
                - [x] .ground_resolution
        - [x] `Angle`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 44
            - [x] `metadata.identification.Resolution`
                - [x] .angular_distance
        - [x] `Measure`: ISO 19103.2015 p. 44
            - [x] `referencing.core.DataEpoch.coordinate_epoch`
    - [x] ISO 19107
        - [x] `GM_Object`
            - [x] `metadata.extent.BoundingPolygon`
                - [x] polygon
        - [x] `GM_Point`
            - [x] `metadata.representation.Georectified`
                - [x] corner_points
                - [x] cetre_point
    - [x] Add ISO 19111:2019 updates
            - [x] ObjectDomain
            - [x] IdentifiedObject
            - [x] `IdentifiedObject.to_wkt`
    - [-] ISO 19110
        - [-] FC_FeatureCatalogue
            - [-] metadata.content

- [x] Add Python mappings to [documentation](https://www.metanorma.org/author/ogc/)
    - src > main > metanorma
    - [x] 7.1.3.1 Departures from ISO model
    - [x] 7.2.1 Primitive types
        - [x] LanguageCode
        - [x] CharacterSetCode
    - [x] 7.2.2 Date and Time mappings (ISO 19103:2015 §7.2.2 to 7.2.4)
        - [x] Date: datetime.date
        - [x] Time: datetime.time
        - [x] DateTime: datetime.datetime
        - [x] TM_Duration: datetime.timedelta
        - [x] TM_PeriodDuration: datetime.timedelta
            - [x] `metadata.extent.TemporalExtent.extent`: make sure datetime.timedelta the right data type to return -> nope, returns a tuple[datetime, datetime] with the first component being the beginning and the second being the end.
        - [x] TM_Primitive: datetime.datetime
        - [x] Update documentation
    - [x] 7.2.3 Collections (ISO 19103:2015 §7.3)
        - [x] Bag --> `Sequence`
        - [x] Set --> `Set`
        - [x] Dictionary --> `dict`
    - [x] 7.3.2 ReferenceSystem
        - MD_ReferenceSystem -> `referencing.crs.ReferenceSystem`
            - [x] added
                - `reference_system_identifier`
                - `reference_system_type`

Commit message:

Fix type hinting issues; update setup, dev, test, doc, and build tp use pyproject.toml

geoapi/src/main/python/python-todo.md, after:

# Python "To Do" List
## Specifications
### ISO Standards
- [ ] 19103
- [ ] 19107
- [ ] 19108 (?)
- [ ] 19109 (?)
- [ ] 19110 (?)
- [ ] 19111
- [ ] 19112 (?)
- [x] 19115-1:2014
    - [x] 19115-1 A1 (2018)
    - [x] 19115-1 A2 (2020)
    - metadata.lineage
        - ProcessStep
- [x] 19115-2:2018
    - [x] 19115-2 A1 (2022)
    - modules
        - metadata.aquisition
        - metadata.lineage
        - metadata.representation
        - metadata.content
        - CodeLists
- [ ] 19115-3
- [ ] 19157:2013 / 19157:2023 (?)
### OGC Standards
- [ ] 01009 (?)
- [ ] Filter (?)
- [ ] Moving Feature (?)

## Library of Enums and Abstract Classes
- [ ] Fix `numpy.ndarray` issues in the `referencing.operation` module
- [x] ISO 19103:2015 mapping to python types
    - [x] Bit --> unimplemented
    - [x] Digit --> unimplemented
    - [x] Sign --> unimplemented
- [x] Conform to PEP8; reflect ISO inheritance patterns
- [x] Abstract method return types
    - [x] pass
    - [x] return None
- [x] __str__ overrides
    - [x] metadata.naming.LocalName
    - [x] metadata.naming.ScopedName
    - [x] metadata.naming.TypeName
    - [x] metadata.naming.MemberName
- [x] `PT_Locale`
    - [x] Webscrape ISO 639-2 codes and store as JSON file (part of Joekulsarlon project)
        - [x] Fix Static type checking errors.
        - [x] Change process to save to parquet and JSON.
        - [x] Double-check parquet file for custom metadata, which is stored in the schema's metadata
        - [x] Convert JSON to Python Enum
    - [x] Webscrape ISO 3166-1 country codes and store in JSON and parquet files (part of Joekulsarlon project)
        - [x] convert JSON to Python Enum
    - [-] Webscrape IANA Character Sets and store in parquet file (part of Joekulsarlon project)
        - [-] Convert JSON to Python Enum
    - [x] Replace PT_Locale with `str` conforming to **IETF BCP 47**
    - [x] `metadata.acquisition.InstrumentEventList.locale`
    - [x] `metadata.base.Metadata`
        - [x] default_locale
        - [x] other_locale
    - [x] `metadata.identification.DataIdentification`
        - [x] default_locale
        - [x] other_locale
- [x] Check for occurences in 19115-1, 19115-2
    - [x] Set
        - [x] ScopeDescription
    - [x] Bag
    - [x] Dictionary
- [-] `PT_LocaleContainer` -> InternationalString (already noted as a `str` in docs 7.2.8)
    - [-] to_string(Locale)
- [x] `URI` --> `str`
    - [x] `metadata.identification.KeywordClass.concept_identifier`
- [x] `Direct Position`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 14 --> already implemented in geometry.primitive from ISO 19107:2019 p. 45
        - [x] `metadata.representation.GCP.geographic_coordinates`
        - [x] add `coordinatte` attribute
- [x] Add code documentation to indicate which attributes/properties/fields are mandatory for ISO 19115-1:2014
- [x] Fix data types for unannotated objects and attributes
- [X] Finish incomplete code documentation
    - [x] Add missing class and attribute descriptions
    - [x] Add definition for each CodeList value in its corresponding Enum class.
        - [x] metadata.citation
        - [x] metadata.content
        - [x] metadata.identification
        - [x] metadata.quality
        - [x] metadata.representation
        - [x] referencing.crs
    - [X] Change references in docstrings from MD_SomeObject (e.g., GM_Object, SV_OperationMetadata) to the python object
- [x] Fix data types for abstraction in ISO 19103, ISO 19107
    - [x] metadata.content
    - [x] metadata.extent
    - [x] metadata.identification
    - [x] metadata.lineage
    - [x] metadata.quality
    - [x] metadata.representation
    - [x] referencing.coordinate
    - [x] referencing.crs
    - [x] ISO 19103:2005
        - [x] `UnitOfMeasure`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 44
            - [x] `metadata.quality.QuantitativeResult.value_unit`
        - [x] `Distance`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 44
            - [x] `metadata.identification.Resolution`
                - [x] .distance
                - [x] .vertical
            - [x] `metadata.lineage.NominalResolution`
                - [x] .scanning_resolution
                - [x] .ground_resolution
        - [x] `Angle`: ISO 19103:2015 p. 44
            - [x] `metadata.identification.Resolution`
                - [x] .angular_distance
        - [x] `Measure`: ISO 19103.2015 p. 44
            - [x] `referencing.core.DataEpoch.coordinate_epoch`
    - [x] ISO 19107
        - [x] `GM_Object`
            - [x] `metadata.extent.BoundingPolygon`
                - [x] polygon
        - [x] `GM_Point`
            - [x] `metadata.representation.Georectified`
                - [x] corner_points
                - [x] cetre_point
    - [x] Add ISO 19111:2019 updates
            - [x] ObjectDomain
            - [x] IdentifiedObject
            - [x] `IdentifiedObject.to_wkt`
    - [-] ISO 19110
        - [-] FC_FeatureCatalogue
            - [-] metadata.content

- [x] Add Python mappings to [documentation](https://www.metanorma.org/author/ogc/)
    - src > main > metanorma
    - [x] 7.1.3.1 Departures from ISO model
    - [x] 7.2.1 Primitive types
        - [x] LanguageCode
        - [x] CharacterSetCode
    - [x] 7.2.2 Date and Time mappings (ISO 19103:2015 §7.2.2 to 7.2.4)
        - [x] Date: datetime.date
        - [x] Time: datetime.time
        - [x] DateTime: datetime.datetime
        - [x] TM_Duration: datetime.timedelta
        - [x] TM_PeriodDuration: datetime.timedelta
            - [x] `metadata.extent.TemporalExtent.extent`: make sure datetime.timedelta the right data type to return -> nope, returns a tuple[datetime, datetime] with the first component being the beginning and the second being the end.
        - [x] TM_Primitive: datetime.datetime
        - [x] Update documentation
    - [x] 7.2.3 Collections (ISO 19103:2015 §7.3)
        - [x] Bag --> `Sequence`
        - [x] Set --> `Set`
        - [x] Dictionary --> `dict`
    - [x] 7.3.2 ReferenceSystem
        - MD_ReferenceSystem -> `referencing.crs.ReferenceSystem`
            - [x] added
                - `reference_system_identifier`
                - `reference_system_type`
