src/main/asciidoc/requirements/REQ01.adoc, before:

[width="90%",cols="2,6"]
|===
|*Requirement 1* {set:cellbgcolor:#CACCCE}|/req/req-class-a/req-name-1 +
 +

Redistributed modules in OGC namespace shall contain the exact same set of types, methods and properties
as listed in the API documentation published by OGC at the following locations: {set:cellbgcolor:#FFFFFF}

Java: http://www.geoapi.org/4.0/javadoc +
Python: TODO
|===

Note that this requirement does not mean that vendors must implement all types and methods,
or can not implement their own API in addition of GeoAPI.
This requirement only means that modules or packages inside the `org.opengis` or `opengis` namespaces
shall contain the exact same set of types as published at above links,
and each of those types shall contain the exact same set of properties as published.
But vendors are still free to implement only a subset of their choice
and throw exception for unimplemented types and methods.
Vendors can also add new types and methods, provided that those additions are in a namespace
different than `org.opengis` and `opengis`.
Finally, this requirement apply only to libraries redistributed for use by other developers.
Final applications are free to remove any unused types or methods if such removal is invisible to other developers.

Commit message:

Specification editions: move more Java-specific discussions to annex, remove some sentences that are outdated or not really applicable, reduce the use of "informative" blocks or make them smaller.

src/main/asciidoc/requirements/REQ01.adoc, after:

[width="90%",cols="2,6"]
|===
|*Requirement 1* {set:cellbgcolor:#CACCCE}|/req/req-class-a/req-name-1 +
 +

Redistributed modules in OGC namespace shall contain the exact same set of types, methods and properties
as listed in the API documentation published by OGC at the following locations: {set:cellbgcolor:#FFFFFF}

Java: http://www.geoapi.org/4.0/javadoc +
Python: [red yellow-background]#TODO#
|===

Note that this requirement does not mean that vendors must implement all types and methods,
or can not implement their own API in addition of GeoAPI.
This requirement only means that modules or packages inside the `org.opengis` or `opengis` namespaces
shall contain the exact same set of types as published at above links,
and each of those types shall contain the exact same set of properties as published.
But vendors are still free to implement only a subset of their choice
and throw exception for unimplemented types and methods.
Vendors can also add new types and methods, provided that those additions are in a namespace
different than `org.opengis` and `opengis`.
Finally, this requirement apply only to libraries redistributed for use by other developers.
Final applications are free to remove any unused types or methods if such removal is invisible to other developers.

[red yellow-background]#TODO: write a Java program verifying signature of all classes and methods in the `org.opengis` namespace.
This verification would be done for the "libraries" target type only, not the "applications" target type.#
