src/main/asciidoc/informative/controlled-vocabulary.adoc, before:

[[controlled-vocabulary]]
==== Controlled vocabulary
[.reference]_From ISO 19103:2015 §6.5_

GeoAPI distinguishes between two enumerated types depending on whether the complete set of literal types is known
when the code is originally created, or if the list may be extended at run time.
Many language provides an `enum` construct for the former case and
GeoAPI defines the `CodeList` abstract class in Java for the later case.

.Enumerated types mapping
[.compact, options="header"]
|========================================================
|ISO 19103 type |Java type                   |Python type
|CodeList       |`org.opengis.util.CodeList` |
|Enumeration    |`java.lang.Enum`            |`Enum`
|`Bit`          |unimplemented               |
|`Digit`        |unimplemented               |
|`Sign`         |unimplemented               |
|========================================================

In some specifications (for example ISO 19115), code list and enumeration names end with the `Code` suffix.
Some other specifications (for example ISO 19111) do not use any particular suffix.
The mapping to programmatic API may uniformize those type names to a single convention, depending on the target language.
For the Java API, `Code` suffixes are omitted in class names.
For the Python API, class names are left unchanged.

++++
<details>
<summary>Code lists in Java</summary>
++++
include::../code/java/code-list.adoc[]
++++
</details>
++++

Commit message:

Clarify some mappings to types in target languages: primitive types, dates and enumerations. Clarify our definition of "controlled vocabulary".
https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoapi/issues/38

src/main/asciidoc/informative/controlled-vocabulary.adoc, after:

[[controlled-vocabulary]]
==== Controlled vocabulary
[.reference]_From ISO 19103:2015 §6.5_

The <<bibliography,feature models abstract specification>> defines controlled vocabulary as an
established list of standardized terminology (names, words or phrases) with associated definitions
for use to identify, describe, index or retrieve information.
A simple implementation of controlled vocabulary commonly found in programming languages is enumeration.

GeoAPI distinguishes two different types of controlled vocabularies:
enumerations are _closed_ controlled vocabularies:
it is not possible to add new members (except by releasing new GeoAPI versions).
By contrast, code lists are _open_ vocabularies:
they provide a basic set of members defined at compile-time,
but users are free to add new members at runtime.

Closed vocabularies are modeled as Enumeration elements within UML models.
Many languages provide an `enum` construct for the closed case and
GeoAPI defines the `CodeList` abstract class in Java for the open case.

.Enumerated types mapping
[.compact, options="header"]
|========================================================
|ISO 19103 type |Java type                   |Python type
|CodeList       |`org.opengis.util.CodeList` |`Enum`
|Enumeration    |`java.lang.Enum`            |`Enum`
|`Bit`          |unimplemented               |
|`Digit`        |unimplemented               |
|`Sign`         |unimplemented               |
|========================================================

In some specifications (for example ISO 19115), code list and enumeration names end with the `Code` suffix.
Some other specifications (for example ISO 19111) do not use any particular suffix.
The mapping to programmatic API may uniformize those type names to a single convention, depending on the target language.
For the Java API, `Code` suffixes are omitted in class names.
For the Python API, class names are left unchanged.
See <<naming,Naming conventions>> for examples.

<<CodeList-introspection,An example in annex>> shows how code list are used in the Java language.
