src/main/asciidoc/informative/parameters.adoc, before:

[[records]]
==== Parameters
[.reference]_From ISO 19111:2003 §11.2, ISO 19115:2014 §6.5.12, ISO 19157:2013 §C.2.2.4_

The concept of operation parameters is defined in many OGC/ISO standards:

* ISO 19111 provides `CC_OperationParameter`,
* ISO 19115 provides `SV_Parameter`,
* ISO 19157 provides `DQM_Parameter`, and
* OGC 01-004 (a legacy standard, but still useful to GeoAPI) provided `GC_ParameterInfo`.

GeoAPI provides a unified parameter framework in the `org.opengis.parameter` Java package.
The ISO 19111 model is adopted as the basis because it provides a clear separation between
the definition of a parameter (name, aliases, identifier, expected value type and units)
and the actual parameter value.
Features defined by other standards and not present in ISO 19111 are retrofitted
in the GeoAPI parameter framework.

.Main parameter properties and their mapping to ISO standards
[.compact, options="header"]
|==========================================================================================================
|GeoAPI             |ISO 19111       |ISO 19115       |ISO 19157     |Remarks
|`name`             |`name`          |`name`          |`name`        |
|`alias`            |`alias`         |                |              |
|`identifier`       |`identifier`    |                |              |Optional, contrarily to name which is mandatory.
|`name.description` |                |                |`definition`  |
|`description`      |                |`description`   |`description` |
|`remarks`          |`remarks`       |                |              |
|`valueType`        |                |                |`valueType`   |
|`direction`        |                |`direction`     |              |
|`minimumOccurs`    |`minimumOccurs` |`optionality`   |              |`optionality   = (minimumOccurs > 0)`
|`maximumOccurs`    |`maximumOccurs` |`repeatability` |              |`repeatability = (maximumOccurs > 1)`
|==========================================================================================================

The result is a parameter framework richer than the parameter class defined by any of above standards taken individually.
For example ISO 19157:2013 do not provide aliases, while some aliases are used in


[[parameter_departures]]
===== Departures from ISO model

`OperationParameter` has been renamed as `ParameterDescriptor`
to emphasize that it only describes the parameters without providing values.
The `Descriptor` suffix is found in other Java libraries such as JavaBeans and Java Advanced Imaging.

Commit message:

Document better the mapping of `DQM_Description` to unified parameter API. Related to https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoapi/issues/78 but not yet a resolution (whether `Description` should extend `InternationalString` is still an open question).

src/main/asciidoc/informative/parameters.adoc, after:

[[records]]
==== Parameters
[.reference]_From ISO 19111:2003 §11.2, ISO 19115:2014 §6.5.12, ISO 19157:2013 §C.2.2.4_

The concept of operation parameters is defined in many OGC/ISO standards:

* ISO 19111 provides `CC_OperationParameter`,
* ISO 19115 provides `SV_Parameter`,
* ISO 19157 provides `DQM_Parameter`, and
* OGC 01-004 (a legacy standard, but still useful to GeoAPI) provided `GC_ParameterInfo`.

GeoAPI provides a unified parameter framework in the `org.opengis.parameter` Java package.
The ISO 19111 model is adopted as the basis because it provides a clear separation between
the definition of a parameter (name, aliases, identifier, expected value type and units)
and the actual parameter value.
The parameter properties that are defined by other standards but not present
in `CC_OperationParameter` are retrofitted in the GeoAPI parameter framework.

.Main parameter properties and their mapping to ISO standards
[.compact, options="header"]
|==========================================================================================================
|GeoAPI             |ISO 19111       |ISO 19115       |ISO 19157     |Remarks
|`name`             |`name`          |`name`          |`name`        |
|`alias`            |`alias`         |                |              |
|`identifier`       |`identifier`    |                |              |Optional, contrarily to `name` which is mandatory.
|`name.description` |                |                |`definition`  |Should be a short sentence.
|`description`      |                |`description`   |`description` |`BrowseGraphic` property not explicitly supported.
|`remarks`          |`remarks`       |                |              |
|`valueType`        |                |                |`valueType`   |
|`direction`        |                |`direction`     |              |
|`minimumOccurs`    |`minimumOccurs` |`optionality`   |              |`optionality   = (minimumOccurs > 0)`
|`maximumOccurs`    |`maximumOccurs` |`repeatability` |              |`repeatability = (maximumOccurs > 1)`
|==========================================================================================================

ISO 19157 `Description` type contains a mandatory text and an optional illustration.
Only the text description is explicitly stored in the GeoAPI unified parameter type.
However, if needed implementations can associate the `description` property to an
object that implement both the `InternationalString` and `Description` interfaces.



[[parameter_departures]]
===== Departures from ISO model

`OperationParameter` has been renamed as `ParameterDescriptor`
to emphasize that it only describes the parameters without providing values.
The `Descriptor` suffix is found in other Java libraries such as JavaBeans and Java Advanced Imaging.
