src/main/asciidoc/informative/primitives.adoc, before:

[[primitives]]
==== Primitive types
[.reference]_From ISO 19103:2015 §7.2.1_

Each primitive type of the OGC/ISO specifications maps to zero, one or two object structures in GeoAPI.
Where the mapping can be made directly to a programming language primitive type, such as `int` and `double`,
the language primitive is preferred. However, when the value must be able to be set to `null`,
the object wrapper of that primitive may be used in languages where "primitives" and "wrappers" are distinct.
The following table shows the mapping used by GeoAPI to represent the primitive types in the ISO 19100 series.

.Primitive types mapping
[.compact, options="header"]
|===================================================================
|ISO 19103 interface   |Java type                       |Python type
|`Boolean`             |`java.lang.Boolean`       ^(1)^ |`int`
|`Number`              |`java.lang.Number`              |`int` or `float`
|`Integer`             |`java.lang.Integer`    ^(1)(2)^ |`int`
|`Real`                |`java.lang.Double`        ^(1)^ |`float`
|`Decimal` ^(3)^       |`java.math.BigDecimal`          |`float`
|`Vector`              |unimplemented                   |unimplemented
|`CharacterString`     |`java.lang.String`        ^(4)^ |`str`
|`Sequence<Character>` |`java.lang.CharSequence`        |`str`
|`CharacterSetCode`    |`java.nio.charset.Charset`      |
|===================================================================

[small]#(1) The primitive type, such as `int` and `double`, is used instead of the wrapper where the value can not be `null`.# +
[small]#(2) Sometime substituted by `java.lang.Long` or `long` where the value may exceed 2^32^.# +
[small]#(3) `Decimal` differs from `Real`, as `Decimal` is exact in base 10 while `Real` may not.# +
[small]#(4) Substituted by `org.opengis.util.InternationalString` where the string representation depends on the locale.# +

Commit message:

Clarify some mappings to types in target languages: primitive types, dates and enumerations. Clarify our definition of "controlled vocabulary".
https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoapi/issues/38

src/main/asciidoc/informative/primitives.adoc, after:

[[primitives]]
==== Primitive types
[.reference]_From ISO 19103:2015 §7.2.1_

Each primitive type of the OGC/ISO specifications maps to zero, one or two object structures in GeoAPI.
Where the mapping can be made directly to a programming language primitive type, such as `int` and `float`,
the language primitive is preferred. In languages where "primitives" and "wrappers" are distinct,
wrappers may be used instead of primitives on a case-by-case basis.
The following table shows the mapping used by GeoAPI to represent the primitive types in the ISO 19100 series.

.Primitive types mapping
[.compact, options="header"]
|===================================================================
|ISO 19103 interface   |Java type                       |Python type
|`Boolean`             |`boolean`                 ^(1)^ |`int`
|`Number`              |`java.lang.Number`              |`int` or `float`
|`Integer`             |`int`                  ^(1)(2)^ |`int`
|`Real`                |`double`                  ^(1)^ |`float`
|`Decimal` ^(3)^       |`java.math.BigDecimal`          |`float`
|`Vector`              |unimplemented                   |unimplemented
|`CharacterString`     |`java.lang.String`        ^(4)^ |`str`
|`Sequence<Character>` |`java.lang.CharSequence`        |`str`
|`CharacterSetCode`    |`java.nio.charset.Charset`      |
|===================================================================

[small]#(1) Wrapper types such as `java.lang.Integer` or `java.util.OptionalInt` may be used where appropriate.# +
[small]#(2) Sometime substituted by `long` or `java.lang.Long` where the value may exceed 2^32^.# +
[small]#(3) `Decimal` differs from `Real`, as `Decimal` is exact in base 10 while `Real` may not.# +
[small]#(4) Substituted by `org.opengis.util.InternationalString` where the string representation depends on the locale.# +
