src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/temporal/index.adoc, before:

[[temporal]]
=== Temporal packages

The GeoAPI temporal package uses the `opengis​.temporal` namespace
and implements some of the types defined in the <<ISO19108>> – _Temporal schema_ specification.
Only the interfaces required by ISO 19115 are currently provided.
Those interfaces complete the ones defined by ISO 19103 in <<datetime>>.

The ISO 19108 interfaces overlap with new interfaces introduced in latest ISO 19111 revision.
In the following table, the interfaces listed in the left column are omitted
in favor of the ISO 19111 interfaces listed in the right column.
Those replacements are suggestions, GeoAPI generally does not mandate this mapping.

.ISO 19108 interfaces omitted in favor of ISO 19111 interfaces
[options="header"]
|=================================================================================
|Omitted ISO 19108 interface |Suggested ISO 19111 replacement
|`JulianDate`                |Combination of `DirectPosition` and `TemporalCRS`
|`TM_Calendar`               |`TemporalCRS` with `CoordinateDataType.DATE_TIME`
|`TM_Clock`                  |`TemporalCRS` with user-defined `CoordinateDataType`
|`TM_CoordinateSystem`       |`TemporalCRS` with `CoordinateDataType.MEASURE`
|`TM_Coordinate`             |Combination of `DirectPosition` and `TemporalCRS`
|`TM_OrdinalPosition`        |Combination of `DirectPosition` and `TemporalCRS`
|`TM_OrdinalReferenceSystem` |`TemporalCRS` with `CoordinateDataType.INTEGER`
|`TM_ReferenceSystem`        |`TemporalCRS`
|=================================================================================

Furthermore, other ISO 19108 interfaces overlap with standard API in the target languages.
In the following table, the interfaces listed in the left column are omitted
in favor of interfaces of target languages listed in the right column.
Those replacements are suggestions, GeoAPI generally does not mandate this mapping.

.ISO 19108 interfaces omitted in favor of standard interfaces of target languages
[options="header"]
|=============================================================================
|Omitted ISO 19108 interface |Suggested Java class                |Python type
|`TM_CalDate`                |`java.time.LocalDate`               |
|`TM_CalendarEra`            |`java.time.chrono.IsoEra`           |
|`TM_ClockTime`              |`java.time.LocalTime`               |
|`TM_DateAndTime`            |`java.time.LocalDateTime`           |
|`TM_Duration`               |`java.time.temporal.TemporalAmount` |
|`TM_Instant`                |`java.time.Instant`                 |
|`TM_IntervalLength`         |`java.time.Duration`                |
|`TM_OrdinalEra`             |`java.time.chrono.Era`              |
|`TM_PeriodDuration`         |`java.time.Period`                  |
|`TM_TemporalPosition`       |`java.time.temporal.Temporal`       |`datetime`
|=============================================================================

Above tables are not a one-to-one relationship.
For example, the ISO 19108 `TM_Instant` type is actually much more generic than the `java.time.Instant` class.
This is because `TM_Instant` can contain (indirectly) a `TM_TemporalPosition`,
which is the base type of Julian day, ordinal position, temporal coordinate value and more.
Therefore, above tables suggest mappings suitable for the majority of cases,
but the GeoAPI interfaces actually declare more generic types than the above-listed ones.

Commit message:

Reduce the `org.opengis.temporal` package to the minimal number of ISO 19108 interfaces needed for supporting ISO 19115 and ISO 19111, then promote to the main `geoapi` module.

src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/temporal/index.adoc, after:

[[temporal]]
=== Temporal packages

The GeoAPI temporal package uses the `opengis​.temporal` namespace
and implements some of the types defined in the <<ISO19108>> – _Temporal schema_ specification.
Only the interfaces required by ISO 19115 are currently provided.
Those interfaces complete the ones defined by ISO 19103 in <<datetime>>.

The ISO 19108 interfaces overlap with new interfaces introduced in latest ISO 19111 revision.
In the following table, the interfaces listed in the left column are omitted
in favor of the ISO 19111 interfaces listed in the right column.
Those replacements are suggestions, GeoAPI generally does not mandate this mapping.

.ISO 19108 interfaces omitted in favor of ISO 19111 interfaces
[options="header"]
|=================================================================================
|Omitted ISO 19108 interface |Suggested ISO 19111 replacement
|`JulianDate`                |Combination of `DirectPosition` and `TemporalCRS`
|`TM_Calendar`               |`TemporalCRS` with `CoordinateDataType.DATE_TIME`
|`TM_Clock`                  |`TemporalCRS` with user-defined `CoordinateDataType`
|`TM_CoordinateSystem`       |`TemporalCRS` with `CoordinateDataType.MEASURE`
|`TM_Coordinate`             |Combination of `DirectPosition` and `TemporalCRS`
|`TM_OrdinalPosition`        |Combination of `DirectPosition` and `TemporalCRS`
|`TM_OrdinalReferenceSystem` |`TemporalCRS` with `CoordinateDataType.INTEGER`
|`TM_ReferenceSystem`        |`TemporalCRS`
|=================================================================================

Furthermore, other ISO 19108 interfaces overlap with standard API in the target languages.
In the following table, the interfaces listed in the left column are omitted
in favor of interfaces of target languages listed in the right column.
Those replacements are suggestions, GeoAPI generally does not mandate this mapping.

.ISO 19108 interfaces omitted in favor of standard interfaces of target languages
[options="header"]
|=============================================================================
|Omitted ISO 19108 interface |Suggested Java class                |Python type
|`TM_CalDate`                |`java.time.LocalDate`               |
|`TM_CalendarEra`            |`java.time.chrono.IsoEra`           |
|`TM_ClockTime`              |`java.time.LocalTime`               |
|`TM_DateAndTime`            |`java.time.LocalDateTime`           |
|`TM_Duration`               |`java.time.temporal.TemporalAmount` |
|`TM_IntervalLength`         |`java.time.Duration`                |
|`TM_OrdinalEra`             |`java.time.chrono.Era`              |
|`TM_PeriodDuration`         |`java.time.Period`                  |
|`TM_TemporalPosition`       |`java.time.temporal.Temporal`       |`datetime`
|=============================================================================

Note that despite their similar names,
`java.time.Instant` is not equivalent to `TM_Instant` and
`java.time.Period` is not equivalent to `TM_Period`.

include::departures.adoc[]
