src/main/asciidoc/informative/filter/departures.adoc, before:

[[filter_departures]]
==== Departures from ISO 19143

The ISO 19143 model is slightly modified in GeoAPI for retrofitting with existing interfaces in {supported-languages}.
Some modifications are also applied for generalization when non-encoded property values can be computed.
The aim is to facilitate computational operations without preventing the encoding of ISO 19143 compliant XML documents,
as omitted types (for example) can be inferred.

===== Omissions relative to expressions
`Function` interface is omitted (actually retrofitted into the base `Expression` interface) for avoiding confusion with
function interfaces provided natively by target platforms (such as the `java.​util.​function` package).
Instead the `Function` properties are moved into the `Expression` parent interface because from a programming
language point of view, all expressions – including `Literal` – can be viewed as a kind of function.
The following partial UML diagrams illustrate the difference.

.Role of function interface in ISO versus GeoAPI model
image::filter_function.svg[Partial UML for ISO and GeoAPI filter function]

===== Omissions relative to filters
`Operator` interface is omitted for simplicity reason.
Instead operators defined by GeoAPI extends directly the `Filter` interface.
This approach avoid an indirection level.

`Non­Id­Operator` and `Extension­Operator` interfaces are omitted for semantic reasons.
GeoAPI generally avoids interfaces with definition of the kind _“is not…”_.
Users should extend directly the most appropriate interface instead.

`Spatial­Description` and `Temporal­Operand` unions are omitted for language constraint reasons.
Unions are not supported in Java and not really needed in Python.
They are replaced by recommendations in the API documentation.

===== Omissions relative to capabilities
`Spatial­Operator­Description` and `Temporal­Operator­Description` in the capabilities section are omitted.
The are replaced by the dictionary of target platforms (for example `Map.Entry` in Java).
It reduces the number of GeoAPI defined interfaces by leveraging platform API
and also makes easier to get the operands for a specific operator.

===== Renaming
* The `expression` association in `Function` is renamed `parameter` for making clearer that they are function inputs.
* The `name` property in `Function` is renamed `function­Name` for making its purpose clearer,
  since GeoAPI declares that property in the `Expression` parent interface.
* The `BinaryComparisonName` type is renamed `ComparisonOperatorName` for consistency with other operator names
  and for making possible to name other kinds of comparison than binary operators.

===== Generalization of filter metadata
The ISO 19143 specification identifies _some_ filters by a code list.
That identification is provided by an `operator­Type` property defined in
`Unary­Logic­Operator`, `Binary­Logic­Operator`, `Binary­Comparison­Operator`,
`Binary­Spatial­Operator` and `Distance­Operator` interfaces.
GeoAPI generalizes by declaring a `get­Operator­Type()` method in the base `Filter` interface.
It provides a single access point for type information without the need to check for each specialized interface.

Likewise ISO 19143 specification provides different properties for getting the expressions used by a filter.
Those properties have different names depending on the sub-type:
`expression` (with a cardinality of 1, 2 or unlimited), `operand1`, `operand2`, or `value­Reference`.
GeoAPI provides a `get­Expressions()` method in the parent `Filter` interface
as a way to access those expressions without the need to make special cases for each sub-interfaces.

[NOTE]
======
The operand names vary in ISO 19143 specification because their types vary.
But those types are often unions, which are materialized only by documentation in GeoAPI.
Consequently the base `Expression` type is used almost everywhere,
which make less useful to have heterogynous properties in sub-interfaces.
======

Commit message:

Omit `UnaryLogicOperator` and `BinaryLogicOperator`, to be handled by the parent `LogicalOperator` interface.

src/main/asciidoc/informative/filter/departures.adoc, after:

[[filter_departures]]
==== Departures from ISO 19143

The ISO 19143 model is slightly modified in GeoAPI for retrofitting with existing interfaces in {supported-languages}.
Some modifications are also applied for generalization when non-encoded property values can be computed.
The aim is to facilitate computational operations without preventing the encoding of ISO 19143 compliant XML documents,
as omitted types (for example) can be inferred.

===== Omissions relative to expressions
`Function` interface is omitted (actually retrofitted into the base `Expression` interface) for avoiding confusion with
function interfaces provided natively by target platforms (such as the `java.​util.​function` package).
Instead the `Function` properties are moved into the `Expression` parent interface because from a programming
language point of view, all expressions – including `Literal` – can be viewed as a kind of function.
The following partial UML diagrams illustrate the difference.

.Role of function interface in ISO versus GeoAPI model
image::filter_function.svg[Partial UML for ISO and GeoAPI filter function]

===== Omissions relative to filters
`Operator` interface is omitted for simplicity reason.
Instead operators defined by GeoAPI extends directly the `Filter` interface.
This approach avoid an indirection level.

`Non­Id­Operator` and `Extension­Operator` interfaces are omitted for semantic reasons.
GeoAPI generally avoids interfaces with definition of the kind _“is not…”_.
Users should extend directly the most appropriate interface instead.

`UnaryLogicOperator` and `BinaryLogicOperator` interfaces are omitted for simplicity.
The `LogicalOperator` parent interface can handle both cases,
with arity determined by the length of the operands list.
If 1, the operator is an `UnaryLogicOperator`.
If 2 or more, the operator is a `BinaryLogicOperator`.
The length may be more than 2 if the AND or OR operation is repeated for all operands.

`Spatial­Description` and `Temporal­Operand` unions are omitted for language constraint reasons.
Unions are not supported in Java and not really needed in Python.
They are replaced by recommendations in the API documentation.

===== Omissions relative to capabilities
`Spatial­Operator­Description` and `Temporal­Operator­Description` in the capabilities section are omitted.
The are replaced by the dictionary of target platforms (for example `Map.Entry` in Java).
It reduces the number of GeoAPI defined interfaces by leveraging platform API
and also makes easier to get the operands for a specific operator.

===== Renaming
* The `expression` association in `Function` is renamed `parameter` for making clearer that they are function inputs.
* The `name` property in `Function` is renamed `function­Name` for making its purpose clearer,
  since GeoAPI declares that property in the `Expression` parent interface.
* The `BinaryComparisonName` type is renamed `ComparisonOperatorName` for consistency with other operator names
  and for making possible to name other kinds of comparison than binary operators.

===== Generalization of filter metadata
The ISO 19143 specification identifies _some_ filters by a code list.
That identification is provided by an `operator­Type` property defined in
`Unary­Logic­Operator`, `Binary­Logic­Operator`, `Binary­Comparison­Operator`,
`Binary­Spatial­Operator` and `Distance­Operator` interfaces.
GeoAPI generalizes by declaring a `get­Operator­Type()` method in the base `Filter` interface.
It provides a single access point for type information without the need to check for each specialized interface.

Likewise ISO 19143 specification provides different properties for getting the expressions used by a filter.
Those properties have different names depending on the sub-type:
`expression` (with a cardinality of 1, 2 or unlimited), `operand1`, `operand2`, or `value­Reference`.
GeoAPI provides a `get­Expressions()` method in the parent `Filter` interface
as a way to access those expressions without the need to make special cases for each sub-interfaces.

[NOTE]
======
The operand names vary in ISO 19143 specification because their types vary.
But those types are often unions, which are materialized only by documentation in GeoAPI.
Consequently the base `Expression` type is used almost everywhere,
which make less useful to have heterogynous properties in sub-interfaces.
======
