src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/referencing/departures.adoc, before:

[[referencing_departures]]
==== Departures from ISO 19111

The main departures of GeoAPI from the ISO 19111 standards are inspired by the legacy OGC 01-009 standard published in 2001.
That legacy standard included COM, CORBA and Java profiles. In support for those profiles, some aspects of the legacy model
were better suited to programming languages compared to the more web-focused standards published the following years.
GeoAPI retains some OGC 01-009 aspects when appropriate and adapt them to the ISO 19111 interfaces.
References to OGC 01-009 clauses are given in sub-sections below.


[[referencing_departures_math_transform]]
===== Separation between coordinate operation metadata and execution
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.4.[1,5] and figure 11_

A major extension of GeoAPI compared the ISO 19111 standard comes from the inclusion,
directly in the `Coordinate­Operation` interface,
of a method providing access to the `Math­Transform` interface from the older OGC 01-009 specification.
That interface performs the actual computation of coordinates in target CRS from the coordinates in source CRS.
This separation – between a type providing operation metadata and a type doing the actual work –
existed in OGC 01-009 and has been kept by GeoAPI for giving to developers more flexibility regarding optimizations.
The operations that are really executed by `Math­Transform` may be very different than the operations described by
`CoordinateOperation`, provided that they are mathematically equivalent.
An example is given in <<referencing_wkt>>.

Since the 2019 revision of ISO 19111 specification, the `Coordinate­Operation` interface has a `transform(…)` method too.
But that new method can be implemented as a convenience method redirecting the work to `Math­Transform`.


[[referencing_departures_cs_association]]
===== Coordinate system association
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.5.3 and figure 7_

In the ISO 19111 specification, only `SingleCRS` has an association to `coordinate­System`.
GeoAPI moves this association to the `Coordinate­Reference­System` parent interface for user convenience,
because coordinate system (CS) dimension and axes are frequently requested information
and will always be available, directly or indirectly, even for `CompoundCRS`.
However, only coordinate systems associated to `SingleCRS` can be instances of ISO 19111 concrete subtypes
(`CartesianCS`, `SphericalCS`, `VerticalCS`, _etc._).
It is not possible to assign a standard concrete type to the coordinate system of a `CompoundCRS`.
For the latter case, users see only the abstract `Coordinate­System` type which serves merely as an axis container.
The concrete CS subtype can be hidden in implementation details.

.Rational
[NOTE]
======
This generalization would not be appropriate for a database schema or for formats such as _Well Known Text_
because axes listed with a `CompoundCRS` would be redundant with axes listed with each CRS component.
But this consideration does not apply to programming languages: the axes do not need to be repeated
because each method such as `Coordinate­System.getAxis(int)` contains code, not necessarily data structure.
Implementations can redirect requests for `Coordinate­System` axes to corresponding `CompoundCRS` elements.
======


[[referencing_departures_class_name]]
===== Type and property names
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.11.2_

The ISO 19111 `CRS` type name has been expanded to the `Coordinate­Reference­System` name in GeoAPI
for compatibility with previous GeoAPI versions.
It is also common practice in Java language to avoid abbreviations.

In the `General­DerivedCRS` interface, the `conversion` association to `Conversion`
has been renamed `conversion­From­Base` for making clear that the source CRS is the `baseCRS`.
This naming is similar to the one used in OGC 01-009 with direction reversed.


[[referencing_departures_second_defining_parameter]]
===== Ellipsoid second defining parameter
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.10_

ISO 19111 defines the union named `Second­Defining­Parameter` as being either `semi­Minor­Axis` or `inverse­Flattening`.
The union construct (defined in some languages like C/C++) does not exist in Java.
GeoAPI changed the interface to require both ellipsoidal parameters
(in addition to the `semiMajorAxis` parameter which is mandatory in any case), as was done in OGC 01-009.
However, implementors could readily permit users to only provide one of the two parameters
by creating a class which calculates the second parameter from the first.
For precision, GeoAPI imports the `isIvf­Definitive` boolean property from <<OGC01-009>>
to enable the user to establish which of the two parameters was used to define the instance.


[[referencing_departures_unions]]
===== Omitted unions

ISO 19111 defines `GeodeticCS`, `EngineeringCS` and `Derived­ProjectedCS` unions for type safety.
For example, the `GeodeticCS` union ensures that a `GeodeticCRS` can only be associated to a
`CartesianCS`, an `EllipsoidalCS` or a `SphericalCS`.
Those unions have been omitted from GeoAPI because unions are not supported in Java language,
and the Python language does not enforce type safety.


[[referencing_departures_for_shared_parameters]]
===== Shared parameters

ISO 19111 defines seven types for representing coordinate operation parameters,
but those types are generic enough for use in other contexts.
GeoAPI moves those types in a separated `parameter` package
and rename `Operation­Parameter` as `Parameter­Descriptor`.

[NOTE]
======
The removal of the "Operation" prefix is for extending the use of these parameter interfaces
to a more general use rather than only for referencing operation types.
The addition of the "Descriptor" suffix is for making more apparent that
this type is an abstract definition of parameters - not their actual values.
It is also consistent with usage in other libraries
(e.g. `ParameterListDescriptor` in _Java Advanced Imaging_).
======

Commit message:

Begin the upgrade from ISO 1911:2007 to ISO 19111:2019. In this commit, the `getScope()` and `getDomainOfValidity()` methods which were defined in the `Datum`, `ReferenceSystem` and `CoordinateOperation` interfaces are deprecated. They are replaced by the same pair of methods but defined in a new `ObjectDomain` type.

src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/referencing/departures.adoc, after:

[[referencing_departures]]
==== Departures from ISO 19111

The main departures of GeoAPI from the ISO 19111 standards are inspired by the legacy OGC 01-009 standard published in 2001.
That legacy standard included COM, CORBA and Java profiles. In support for those profiles, some aspects of the legacy model
were better suited to programming languages compared to the more web-focused standards published the following years.
GeoAPI retains some OGC 01-009 aspects when appropriate and adapt them to the ISO 19111 interfaces.
References to OGC 01-009 clauses are given in sub-sections below.


[[referencing_departures_math_transform]]
===== Separation between coordinate operation metadata and execution
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.4.[1,5] and figure 11_

A major extension of GeoAPI compared the ISO 19111 standard comes from the inclusion,
directly in the `Coordinate­Operation` interface,
of a method providing access to the `Math­Transform` interface from the older OGC 01-009 specification.
That interface performs the actual computation of coordinates in target CRS from the coordinates in source CRS.
This separation – between a type providing operation metadata and a type doing the actual work –
existed in OGC 01-009 and has been kept by GeoAPI for giving to developers more flexibility regarding optimizations.
The operations that are really executed by `Math­Transform` may be very different than the operations described by
`CoordinateOperation`, provided that they are mathematically equivalent.
An example is given in <<referencing_wkt>>.

Since the 2019 revision of ISO 19111 specification, the `Coordinate­Operation` interface has a `transform(…)` method too.
But that new method can be implemented as a convenience method redirecting the work to `Math­Transform`.


[[referencing_departures_cs_association]]
===== Coordinate system association
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.5.3 and figure 7_

In the ISO 19111 specification, only `SingleCRS` has an association to `coordinate­System`.
GeoAPI moves this association to the `Coordinate­Reference­System` parent interface for user convenience,
because coordinate system (CS) dimension and axes are frequently requested information
and will always be available, directly or indirectly, even for `CompoundCRS`.
However, only coordinate systems associated to `SingleCRS` can be instances of ISO 19111 concrete subtypes
(`CartesianCS`, `SphericalCS`, `VerticalCS`, _etc._).
It is not possible to assign a standard concrete type to the coordinate system of a `CompoundCRS`.
For the latter case, users see only the abstract `Coordinate­System` type which serves merely as an axis container.
The concrete CS subtype can be hidden in implementation details.

.Rational
[NOTE]
======
This generalization would not be appropriate for a database schema or for formats such as _Well Known Text_
because axes listed with a `CompoundCRS` would be redundant with axes listed with each CRS component.
But this consideration does not apply to programming languages: the axes do not need to be repeated
because each method such as `Coordinate­System.getAxis(int)` contains code, not necessarily data structure.
Implementations can redirect requests for `Coordinate­System` axes to corresponding `CompoundCRS` elements.
======


[[referencing_departures_class_name]]
===== Type and property names
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.11.2_

The ISO 19111 `CRS` type name has been expanded to the `Coordinate­Reference­System` name in GeoAPI
for compatibility with previous GeoAPI versions.
It is also common practice in Java language to avoid abbreviations.

In the `General­DerivedCRS` interface, the `conversion` association to `Conversion`
has been renamed `conversion­From­Base` for making clear that the source CRS is the `baseCRS`.
This naming is similar to the one used in OGC 01-009 with direction reversed.


[[referencing_departures_second_defining_parameter]]
===== Ellipsoid second defining parameter
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.10_

ISO 19111 defines the union named `Second­Defining­Parameter` as being either `semi­Minor­Axis` or `inverse­Flattening`.
The union construct (defined in some languages like C/C++) does not exist in Java.
GeoAPI changed the interface to require both ellipsoidal parameters
(in addition to the `semiMajorAxis` parameter which is mandatory in any case), as was done in OGC 01-009.
However, implementors could readily permit users to only provide one of the two parameters
by creating a class which calculates the second parameter from the first.
For precision, GeoAPI imports the `isIvf­Definitive` boolean property from <<OGC01-009>>
to enable the user to establish which of the two parameters was used to define the instance.


[[referencing_departures_object_usage]]
===== Scope and domain of validity

In the ISO 19111 model, only the `Datum`, `CoordinateReferenceSystem` and `CoordinateOperation` types
can specify a scope and a domain of validity.
This is done through the `domain` property defined in a common parent of those three types, named `ObjectUsage`.
GeoAPI makes the `domain` property more generally available by moving it into the `IdentifiedObject` parent type.
This generalization allows other types of object, such as `CoordinateSystem`, to also specify a domain.
For example, an application for data in space may want to define a `MinkowskiCS` type with the following scope:
"For objects moving at relativistic speed".

As a side-effect of this generalization, the `ObjectUsage` interface can be omitted since `domain` was its sole property.
The `ObjectUsage` type name is at odd with the semantics of subclassing as an “is type of” hierarchy.
Qualifying a CRS as “a type of object usage” is restrictive.
Instead, CRS _contains_ a description of object usage.
This semantic oddity is avoided by omitting the `ObjectUsage` type.


[[referencing_departures_unions]]
===== Omitted unions

ISO 19111 defines `GeodeticCS`, `EngineeringCS` and `Derived­ProjectedCS` unions for type safety.
For example, the `GeodeticCS` union ensures that a `GeodeticCRS` can only be associated to a
`CartesianCS`, an `EllipsoidalCS` or a `SphericalCS`.
Those unions have been omitted from GeoAPI because unions are not supported in Java language,
and the Python language does not enforce type safety.


[[referencing_departures_for_shared_parameters]]
===== Shared parameters

ISO 19111 defines seven types for representing coordinate operation parameters,
but those types are generic enough for use in other contexts.
GeoAPI moves those types in a separated `parameter` package
and rename `Operation­Parameter` as `Parameter­Descriptor`.

[NOTE]
======
The removal of the "Operation" prefix is for extending the use of these parameter interfaces
to a more general use rather than only for referencing operation types.
The addition of the "Descriptor" suffix is for making more apparent that
this type is an abstract definition of parameters - not their actual values.
It is also consistent with usage in other libraries
(e.g. `ParameterListDescriptor` in _Java Advanced Imaging_).
======
