src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/referencing/factories.adoc, before:

[[factories]]
==== Factories
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.[6…7] and §12.4.6_

The referencing packages include factory types defined originally in the <<OGC01-009>> specification.
These factories define a normalized approach to object instantiation and,
if used exclusively, simplify the work of switching between implementations.
Subtypes of `Object­Factory` instantiate objects by assembling components passed as arguments and
subtypes of `Authority­Factory` instantiate objects based on identifiers in some third party database,
notably those in the EPSG geodetic dataset.

.Factory interfaces partially derived from OGC 01-009
image::factories.svg[UML of factories]

#TODO: Some methods of `CRSAuthorityFactory` and
`CoordinateOperationAuthorityFactory` to be replaced by ISO 19111:2019 `RegisterOperations`.#

Code that needs to instantiate one of the objects defined in GeoAPI referencing packages
should first obtain the factory in some platform dependent manner
and then use the factory methods to instantiate the desired object instances.
These instances can then be used through the interfaces defined in the GeoAPI library.

In Java, factory implementations are discovered by `java​.util​.Service­Loader`.
In Python, GeoAPI does not have a recommended mechanism yet.


[[axis_order]]
===== Axis order
The order of coordinate system axes in every objects obtained from an `Authority­Factory` shall be as defined by the authority.
The order depends on the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) type and the country defining the CRS.
In the case of geographic CRS, this is often – but not always – the (_latitude_, _longitude_) axis order.
In particular the following method call:


[source,java,options="unnumbered"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GeographicCRS WGS84 = crsAuthorityFactory.createGeographicCRS("EPSG::4326");
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

shall return a coordinate reference system with (_latitude_, _longitude_) axis order, not (_longitude_, _latitude_).

Commit message:

Change tests for fetching their factories through `RegisterOperations`. Update the metanorma specification accordingly.

src/main/metanorma/sections/informative/referencing/factories.adoc, after:

[[register_operations]]
==== Register operations
_From <<ISO19111>> §12 and §C.5.6_

`RegisterOperations` provides methods for retrieving the definition
of a coordinate reference system (CRS) or a coordinate operation from a geodetic registry.
It also provides a method for finding a set of coordinate operations between two CRS instances.
The latter operation generally requires the use of a geodetic registry when the operation is a transformation.

`RegisterOperations` is often the only interface needed by users as an entry point for referencing services.
The way to obtain an instance of this interface is language-specific.
On the Java platform, implementers shall declare their class in `module-info` (<<req_implementation_discovery>>).
Users can obtain an instance of that class using `java.util.ServiceLoader` like below:

[source,java,options="unnumbered"]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RegisterOperations services = ServiceLoader.load(RegisterOperations.class).findFirst().orElseThrow();
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`RegisterOperations` provides a high-level API. A lower-level API is described in <<factories>>
for extracting CRS components such as coordinate systems or datum, or for building CRS instances from scratch.
Those low-level interfaces can be obtained by `RegisterOperations.getFactory(…)`,
as they are (at least conceptually) the interfaces to which `RegisterOperations` delegates its work.


[[factories]]
==== Factories
_From <<OGC01-009>> §12.3.[6…7] and §12.4.6_

The referencing packages include factory types defined originally in the <<OGC01-009>> specification.
These factories define a normalized approach to object instantiation and,
if used exclusively, simplify the work of switching between implementations.
Subtypes of `Object­Factory` instantiate objects by assembling components passed as arguments and
subtypes of `Authority­Factory` instantiate objects based on identifiers in some third party database,
notably those in the EPSG geodetic dataset.

.Factory interfaces partially derived from OGC 01-009
image::factories.svg[UML of factories]

Code that needs to instantiate one of the objects defined in GeoAPI referencing packages
should first obtain the factory with `RegisterOperations.getFactory(…)` (<<register_operations>>)
and then use the factory methods to instantiate the desired object instances.
These instances can then be used through the interfaces defined in the GeoAPI library.


[[axis_order]]
===== Axis order
The order of coordinate system axes in every objects obtained from an `Authority­Factory` shall be as defined by the authority.
The order depends on the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) type and the country defining the CRS.
In the case of geographic CRS, this is often – but not always – the (_latitude_, _longitude_) axis order.
In particular the following method call:

[source,java,options="unnumbered"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GeographicCRS WGS84 = crsAuthorityFactory.createGeographicCRS("EPSG::4326");
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

shall return a coordinate reference system with (_latitude_, _longitude_) axis order, not (_longitude_, _latitude_).
