src/main/metanorma/document.adoc, before:

= OGC GeoAPI
:doctype:                  standard
:docsubtype:               implementation
:encoding:                 utf-8
:lang:                     en
:status:                   draft
:draft:                    1.0
:edition:                  4.0
:committee:                technical
:external-id:              http://www.opengis.net/doc/{doc-type}/{standard}/{m.n}
:docnumber:                TBD
:received-date:            TBD
:issued-date:              TBD
:published-date:           TBD
:fullname:                 Martin Desruisseaux
:submitting-organizations: Geomatys
:keywords:                 ogcdoc, OGC document, GeoAPI, programming, Java, Python, interface, geospatial, metadata, referencing, feature
:mn-document-class:        ogc
:mn-output-extensions:     xml,html,doc,pdf
:pdf-uri:                  ./document.pdf
:xml-uri:                  ./document.xml
:doc-uri:                  ./document.doc
:imagesdir:                figures
:data-uri-image:
:local-cache-only:
:supported-languages:      Java and Python


// Note: we really need a blank line between `include` statements for avoiding section headers to be misinterpreted.
include::sections/clause_0_front_material.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_1_scope.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_2_conformance.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_3_references.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_4_terms_and_definitions.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_5_conventions.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_6_informative_text.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_7_normative_text.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-tests.adoc[]

include::sections/profiles/java/annex.adoc[]

include::sections/profiles/python/annex.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-code.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-history.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-bibliography.adoc[]

Commit message:

Edit the files content for Metanorma: - Convert Asciidoc syntax to Metanorma. - Convert MathML formula to AsciiMath. - Convert style sheet customization. - Warnings are not yet fixed.
Modify Metanorma build for writing in a separated target directory.
A Unix shell script is added with the needed Metanorma-cli options.
The intent is to avoid polluting the source directory.

https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoapi/issues/82

src/main/metanorma/document.adoc, after:

= OGC GeoAPI
:doctype:                  standard
:docsubtype:               implementation
:encoding:                 utf-8
:lang:                     en
:status:                   draft
:draft:                    1.0
:edition:                  4.0
:committee:                technical
:external-id:              http://www.opengis.net/doc/{doc-type}/{standard}/{m.n}
:docnumber:                TBD
:received-date:            TBD
:issued-date:              TBD
:published-date:           TBD
:workgroup:                GeoAPI SWG
:fullname:                 Martin Desruisseaux
:submitting-organizations: Geomatys
:keywords:                 ogcdoc, OGC document, GeoAPI, programming, Java, Python, interface, geospatial, metadata, referencing, feature
:mn-document-class:        ogc
:mn-output-extensions:     xml,html,doc,pdf
:pdf-uri:                  ./document.pdf
:xml-uri:                  ./document.xml
:doc-uri:                  ./document.doc
:imagesdir:                figures
:data-uri-image:
:local-cache-only:         ../../../target/
:supported-languages:      Java and Python
:htmlstylesheet-override: geoapi.css
// Note: above line needs to be have exactly one space and to be before this comment.


// Note: we really need a blank line between `include` statements for avoiding section headers to be misinterpreted.
include::sections/clause_0_front_material.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_1_scope.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_2_conformance.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_3_references.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_4_terms_and_definitions.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_5_conventions.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_6_informative_text.adoc[]

include::sections/clause_7_normative_text.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-tests.adoc[]

include::sections/profiles/java/annex.adoc[]

include::sections/profiles/python/annex.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-code.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-history.adoc[]

include::sections/annex-bibliography.adoc[]
